---
layout: post
title: "Some thoughts during the Youth Planners' Innovation Forum at Tongji University"
author: Hao
image_big: /assets/
image_small: /assets/
image_alt: 
comments: false
keywords:
description:
categories:

---

It is important to differ migrant workers and migrants when conducting research on public policy for coordinating rural and urban development. Migrant workers pursue the most interest for working in a city while migrants pursue to be involved in urban life and social inclusion. Is it necessary to provide low-rent housing for migrant workers? They don't seek to live in cities, but only to make as much profits as they can. To those who really intend to be members of urban society, we should not just offer them urban identity such as urban hukou, but also make them feel involved by organizing community participation, etc.. Li Zhigang (Sun Yat-sen University)'s research shows that, valuing the role of Middle class when proposing planning mechanism for mix-living model may be beneficial for .

Another opinion being discussed during the forum provides a possible solution for easing the burden of social inclusion in big cities is called In-situ Urbanization.


By the mid-1980s, attitudes toward urbanization began to shift, with cities coming to be viewed as “growth poles” and the “city as leading the country.” Some Chinese researchers argued that “growth poles should be scattered through the country, each sending waves of economic growth in its hinterland” (Fan 1997: 630). In order to accelerate industrialization and meet the needs of construction and other services, cities had to absorb more migrants. Moreover, the small towns that had become important foci for industrial development grew to become substantial urban centers with concentrations of industry and were reclassified as cities, a process known as in situ urbanization.
To prevent the further marginalization of rural area, it is vital to enhance the attraction of rural area to keep the farmers/potential migrant workers instead of leave all the burdens of urban-rural integration to big cities. In-situ urbanization can promote infrastructure and social welfare development in rural areas, attract more investment.

Construction of "shuttle" transportation system among universities in Shanghai. The agglomeration of intelligence boost local development. However, from Shanghai University to Tongji University, students usually need to take 3 different lines on subway, which the opportunity of face-to-face communication of students from different university. In the long run, it may... My suggestion is building a transportation system connects all the universities in Shanghai without stop at other places, which is 100% students/ faculties oriented to promote the idea exchgange of well-educated people.
